---
id: 127
title: Marissa
date: 2005-09-04T00:39:00+00:00
author: josh
layout: post
guid: http://surber.us/?p=127
permalink: /2005/09/marissa/
btc_comment_counts:
  - 's:6:"a:0:{}";'
btc_comment_summary:
  - 's:6:"a:0:{}";'
tmac_last_id:
  - "152954872705200128"
dsq_thread_id:
  - "12636654"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - friends and family
  - frusterations
---
Her mother had a baby about two months ago, named Marissa. Unfortunately, she is a huge drug user and the baby tested positive for meth-amphetamines, which clear out of your system in three days or so so she had been doing them quite recently.

<p style="text-align: left;">
  <acronym title="Child Protective Services">CPS</acronym> was on the ball for once, and wouldn’t let her take her child home from the hospital. She didn’t want anyone to know that she is a user (her family is tightly knit and talks a lot among themselves) so she had Jennifer sign something saying that she would be the guardian until Tina (her mother) could pass a drug test.
</p>

She still hasn’t.

Fortunately we had the guardianship transferred to her boyfriend’s mother, who lived with her. We love the kid, but couldn’t stand having to spend time with Tina.

The sad thing (not that this whole story isn’t sad) is that everyone cares more about Marissa than her parents. My mother (not related to her in any way or anything) has spent will over $100 on her alone, and is far from being the only one who takes care of her. Jennifer and I have spent more time with her than anyone else, much to our inconvenience. Yet Tina doesn’t appreciate a bit of it.

She comes over to our apartment and invites herself to stay. She invites her boyfriend (who cares nothing for her or Marissa) to stay here. She loses all the stuff people get her for the baby. Then she has the gall to say that **we** do nothing to help **her**, and are trying to take her baby!

Everyone in her family has done everything possible to help her out. So have we. She just takes what she can from everyone and then moves on to the next well-meaning victim. I hate it. I hate her.

The worst part is that I have done this same thing many times in my life, and am now beginning to understand why no one trusts me. I’m not like that anymore (I don’t think, at least) but I know that it’s going to be a long time before I give her another chance; does this mean that I won’t get more chances either?