---
id: 1337
title: Career
date: 2016-08-31T23:20:00+00:00
author: josh
layout: post
guid: http://surber.us/?p=1337
permalink: /2016/08/career/
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - work
---
The last time I had written here in 2011, I had recently been hired to provide free samples at Sam&#8217;s club. While there, I met Mary, who worked in the bakery during the day but moonlit at a regionally popular burger chain. She mentioned that her store was in need of good management, and suggested that I apply. I eventually did, and was hired. I had originally thought that this, like every job I&#8217;ve had, would be something to keep me afloat until I went on to somewhere else.

I was wrong.

I have been a vegetarian since 1989, and while the restaurant I work for is well known for high quality, I have never tasted a burger from there. Yet it is a great company, whom I have been working for just short of five years. This is the longest I have held a position in my life, and the first job that I feel I can actually say I have turned into a career. A little over a year ago I was given a promotion and am now General Manager of an entire restaurant. This required my wife and I to pack up and move, but it is worth it. I am happy overall with my job; of course it is a stressful industry, but I can manage stress better than most.

Teachers used to tell me if I didn&#8217;t live up to my potential I&#8217;d wind up flipping burgers. It turns out that living up to my potential has me doing exactly that.

And I couldn&#8217;t be happier about it.