---
title: My path to a change
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - career
  - programming
---

I got my first job as a bagger at Kroger when I was sixteen years old. Since
then all my jobs have been in either retail or food service. I turned 40 last
October. That means I have been working in the toxic customer service industry for
**twenty-four years**. I've decided I'm ready for a change.

Since I was a kid I've been fascinated with codes and ciphers. While I know that
computer cryptography is far superior to anything that uses pencil and paper
(other than a one-time pad) I still enjoy doing ciphers by hand. A few months
ago I came across the [VIC cipher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VIC_cipher),
which most consider was the most complicated hand cipher ever used in the field.
I played with it for a while, encoding and decoding messages to myself, but
realized I could write a program to encode messages for me to decode. Yes, this
sounds fun to me. My coding skills are a decade or so out of date, so I bought
the newest edition of my favorite programming book, [JavaScript: The Definitive
Guide](https://amzn.to/36T9sle "Affiliate link") and started reading up.

At the same time, I was hired at Starbucks. They paid for me to go to collage.
I had been wanting to go to collage since I was a kid but life kept getting in
the way. I decided that I was going to make a change in my life to get out of
this industry. Starbucks didn't work out, but the motivation has stayed with me.
I have completed the [Responsive Web Design
Certification](https://www.freecodecamp.org/certification/joshsurber/responsive-web-design)
at [freeCodeCamp](http://freecodecamp.org). I've been watching YouTube videos
and reading articles on how to break into a career as a developer.

I'm getting out of customer service jobs. I'm committed to learning all I can
and improving my life. And I'm going to post updates of what I'm learning and
doing along the way.
