# Review of the MK-47

As I stated in [a previous post](/2023/07/18/34-keys), I am currently getting into the world of minimal keyboards. I'm currently using the [MK-47](https://www.microcenter.com/product/661264/inland-47-keys-hot-swappable-rgb-wired-mechanical-keyboard), a minimal store brand keyboard that costs $50 at MicroCenter.

## What I like about this keyboard

Compared to most mechanical keyboards, the MK-47 is cheap. Like, really really cheap. Again, $50 including RGB lighting, mediocre no-name red switches, and keycaps. It is also assembled, rather than a kit. Honestly, I don't know how they afford this.

The MK47 states that it comes powered by [QMK](http://qmk.fm) and supports [VIA](http://caniusevia.app). It may be powered by QMK, but I had no luck flashing it, nor did anyone on Reddit that I was able find. The [normal VIA app](http://usevia.app) does not work with it either but it didn't take much digging to find that <https://via.evove.top/> works well. This is the first programmable keeb I've owned, and I am not going back! I set it to Colemak (which I learned about two months ago and am still working at building speed and accuracy in), set a grid-layout numpad on my home row, and generally made a bunch of changes to make this keyboard my own.

I also really like the ortholinear layout. Instead of the stagger between rows all keys are in a grid, which makes finding some of the less-used keys easier. I am still relearning the bottom row as most of these keys are so far staggered in a traditional layout that I was using the incorrect fingering. But overall, the ortho layout makes it much easier to find keys and takes very little getting used to.

## What I dislike

As stated before, this keeb does not support proper VIA or QMK flashing, which means the programmability is limited. I can set macros and layers, but can't add more than four layers (including the base layer), combos, mouse support, or many other things that I would be able to do if I could flash QMK directly to the keeb. I love the level of customization I have over my keymap, but it just makes me want to go further and I can't. I also can't set the ModTap hold time, which makes home row mods nearly unuseable. 

I don't have a lot of experience with keyswitches, but know that I don't care much for these, but they are hot-swappable so I can change them out. The keycaps were not only ugly, but also sculpted so I can't move them to match my Colemak layout. I ordered some SDA profile caps which do not diffuse the beautiful RGB lighting as well but are comfortable and do what I need.

I have also been playing with a 34 key layout that would be better served by two 1 unit spacebars than with a 2 unit one. 

## Where I plan to go from here

I don't plan to use this board forever, and never did. It was just the cheapest intro I could find to ortho keyboards and smaller keyboards, so I could see if I wanted to invest in either. I plan to continue with both. I have already ordered a [Contra kit](https://keebd.com/en-us/products/contra-40-keyboard-kit) which will be my first build. I am dialing in my exact key layout until it arrives. However, the layout I am currently using is only [34 keys](/34KEYS_FIXME), so I am almost certainly going to wind up building a 34 split like the [Ferris Sweep](https://keebmaker.com/products/ferris-sweep) quite soon. My MK47 will be given to a coworker who is a keyboard enthusiast, and who has expressed an interest in an ortholinear layout. Perhaps he will wind up on the same journey as me.

## Final thoughts

This keyboard is not an endgame. You will not want it as a daily driver for long; I sure don't. But if you are curious about smaller form factors or ortholinear layouts, the MK47 is the cheapest way I have found to try them out before investing money or time. 